Arionum coin mining is different than other cryptocurrencies in a couple of ways:
- has 2 alternating block types, named CBlock (the ones with even height) and GBlock (the ones with odd height). The blocks use different algorithm settings. The names have a historical reason. The CBlocks were meant to be easily mined using CPU devices and GBlocks by GPU devices. Mining them the other way around should have been very inneficient. A lot of progress was made in mining code so at the current stage both CPU and GPU devices can mine both kind of blocks quite efficiently. GPUs are much faster than CPUs though in both blocks but also consumes much more energy.
- has a proprietary protocol to communicate with the pools (no stratum support, at least not at the moment of writing these docs). This means there is a small number of pools available for mining. The main ones for the moment are http://aropool.com (managed by arionum developers) and http://mine.arionumpool.com (managed by HashPi, you can find him on Discord)
- the wallet and the node are 2 separate applications. The node contains the actual blockchain data, while the wallet connects to the node for retrieving balance and making transactions. You do not need to run a node in order to use the wallet, it will automatically connect to a running node on the network. So, you don't need to download gigabytes of data to use and mine arionum. There are 3 wallets available:
  - lightWalletCLI (https://github.com/arionum/lightWalletCLI) - this is a PHP based, console mode version; its usage is recommended for linux users accustomed with console usage
  - lightWalletGUI (https://github.com/arionum/lightWalletGUI) - visual basic code, for Windows users
  - ArionumElectron (https://github.com/CuteCubed/Arionum-Electron) - javascript/nodejs based, crossplatform wallet
  
In order to mine arionum using ariominer you need to do the following:
- download one of the wallets and use it to generate an arionum address. If you are using lightWalletCLI, when running it first time it will create an arionum address. The output will be something like:

```
$./light-arionum-cli 
No ARO wallet found. Generating a new wallet!
Would you like to encrypt this wallet? (y/N) N
Your Address is: QKMm3mLeZabAVshn8BLBcJ4BRVi3PbkPp9p7d7GPva6k6vRdu5fMEoZS1ZRHbvaUKx65ha1Vnb1JE5dKb5SV2PM
Your Public Key is: PZ8Tyr4Nx8MHsRAGMpZmZ6TWY63dXWSD1Gms6T7iy3UxSMVtfMXTsjnXvtnWtxpgFT8Cdgd7qgFgMU1zLS5GAioKTfc7zRoybVHdH2yMKEKFsMggQELtCmpc
Your Private Key is: xxxx
```
- download an ariominer binary package from release section (https://github.com/bogdanadnan/ariominer/releases) or build it yourself from source code based on instructions in Readme file
- ariominer has the ability to use any available hardware you have (CPU or GPU or both). In order to control which device it will use and how much of it, ariominer uses the notion of intensity. In case of CPU, the intensity is the percent of cores that the miner will use. For example if you have a quadcore, and use an intensity of 50% for CPU, it will use 2 cores. For GPU's on the other hand, intensity is a much more complex stuff. It represents the percent of the total GPU memory used by the miner, which in turn controls the number of threads that runs on the card based on the amount of memory used by the algorithm (which if you remember is different for CBlocks and GBlocks). Because of the way GPU's work internally, the hashrate doesn't increase proportional with intensity for GPUs. It actually follows a sawtooth pattern. And the pattern is different for CBlocks and GBlocks. So in order to best use your GPUs, ariominer gives you the possibility to specify different intensity for cblocks and gblocks. To summarize you will have 3 parameters to optimize in order to get the highest hashrate:
  - --cpu-intensity: this represents the percent of cores that will be used by CPU for both types of blocks. Higher intensity means higher hashrate
  - --gpu-intensity-cblocks: this represents the intensity used for CBlocks on GPU. CBlocks use a high amount of memory per hash, so for best hashrate you will want this number to be as high as possible (even 100). Because the GPU memory is also used by the system for video display you might not be able to set it to 100 though, so just try numbers from 100 and decrease by 1 until it doesn't give any error.
  - --gpu-intensity-gblocks: this represents the intensity used for GBlocks on GPU. This is a very tricky one. It follows a sawtooth pattern and finding the best value manually is difficult. The best values are usually somewhere between 30 and 50, but even values different with a single unit might give you huge hashrate boosts (remember sawtooth pattern?). In order to help you finding the perfect value, ariominer has a special mode called autotune that will go through all intensity values in an interval specified by you and will measure hashrate, giving you in the end the best value to use. I'll show you how to use it in a few moments.
- in order to use different devices, ariominer implements them as hashers. There are 5 hashers for CPU (depending on instruction support: SSE2, SSSE3, AVX, AVX2, AVX512F) and 3 hashers for GPU (OPENCL - for all card types, CUDA - for NVidia cards, AMDGCN - for some AMD cards, RX and VEGA mainly). Ariominer tries its best to autodetect the hardware you have and to use the best possible hasher for it. But for specific hardware configurations it might not work well. 
